Breadbox Ensemble DEMO License Agreement

PLEASE READ THIS LICENSE CAREFULLY BEFORE USING THIS SOFTWARE. BY
USING THIS SOFTWARE, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS
LICENSE.

The enclosed computer program(s) ("Software") is licensed, not sold
to you by Breadbox Computer Company LLC (Breadbox) for use only under
the terms of this License, and Breadbox reserves any rights not
expressly granted to you. You own the media on which the Software is
recorded or fixed, but Breadbox and its licensors retain ownership
of the Software itself.

1.  Grant of License. This License allows you to:

(a)  Use one copy of the Software on a single computer at a time. To
"use" this software means that the Software is either loaded into
temporary memory (i.e., RAM) of a computer or installed on the
permanent memory of a computer (i.e., hard disk, etc.). You may
install the Software on a common storage device which is accessible
by multiple computers, provided that if more computers have access to
the common storage device than the number of licensed copies of the
Software, you must have some software mechanism which locks-out any
concurrent users in excess of the number of licensed copies of the
Software, or purchase additional copies of the Software.

(b)  Make one copy of the Software in machine readable form solely
for backup purposes. You may not copy the written materials.

(c)  Permanently transfer all of your rights under this license to 
another party by providing to such party all copies of the Software
licensed under this License together with a copy of this License and
the accompanying written materials, provided that the other party
reads and agrees to accept the terms and conditions of this License.
You may not rent or lease the Software or otherwise transfer or
assign the right to use the Software, except as stated in this
paragraph.

(d)  Notwithstanding any other terms of this License, if the Software
is licensed as an upgrade or update, then you may only use the
Software to replace previously validly licensed versions of the same
software. You agree that the upgrade or update does not constitute
the granting of a second license to the Software (i.e., you may not
use the upgrade or update in addition to the software it is
replacing, nor may you transfer the software which is being replaced
to a third party).

2.  Restrictions. The Software contains trade secrets in its human
perceivable form and, to protect them, you may not REVERSE ENGINEER,
DECOMPILE, DISASSEMBLE OR OTHERWISE REDUCE THIS SOFTWARE TO ANY HUMAN
PERCEIVABLE FORM. YOU MAY NOT MODIFY, ADAPT, TRANSLATE, RENT, LEASE,
LOAN OR CREATE DERIVATIVE WORKS BASED UPON THE SOFTWARE OR ANY PART
THEREOF.

3.  Termination. This License is effective until terminated. This
License will terminate immediately without notice from Breadbox or
judicial resolution if you fail to comply with any provision of the
License. Upon such termination you must destroy the Software, all
accompanying written materials and all copies thereof, and Sections
5, 6 and 7 will survive any termination.

4.  Export Law Assurances. You agree that neither the Software nor
any direct product thereof is being or will be shipped, transferred
or re-exported, directly or indirectly, into any country prohibited
by the United States Export Administration Act and the regulations
thereunder or will be used for any purposes prohibited by the Act.

5.  Limited Warranty. Breadbox warrants for a period of ninety
(90) days from the date of your purchase that (i) the media on which
the Software is recorded will be free from defects in materials and
workmanship under normal use, and (ii) the Software as provided by
Breadbox will substantially conform to Breadbox's published
specifications for the Software. Breadbox's entire liability and your
sole and exclusive remedy for any breach of the foregoing limited
warranty will be, at Breadbox's option, replacement of the media,
refund of the purchase price or repair or replacement of the
Software.

6.  TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, BREADBOX AND
ITS SUPPLIERS DISCLAIM ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTEES OF MERCHANTABILITY
AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, WITH REGARD TO THE SOFTWARE,
THE ACCOMPANYING PRINTED MATERIALS, AND ANY ACCOMPANYING HARDWARE.
THIS LIMITED WARRANTY GIVES YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS. BECAUSE SOME
JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, THE ABOVE LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

7.  Limitation of Remedies and Damages. IN NO EVENT WILL BREADBOX,
ITS SUBSIDIARIES OR ANY LICENSORS, DIRECTORS, OFFICERS,
EMPLOYEES OR AFFILIATES OF ANY OF THE FOREGOING BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR
ANY CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT OR SPECIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
(INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS,
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION AND THE LIKE),
WHETHER FORESEEABLE OR UNFORESEEABLE, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE OR ACCOMPANYING WRITTEN MATERIALS,
REGARDLESS OF THE BASIS OF THE CLAIM AND EVEN IF BREADBOX OR A
BREADBOX REPRESENTATIVE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE. Breadbox's liability to you for direct damages for any cause
whatsoever, and regardless of the form of the action, will be limited
to the amount Breadbox or its suppliers received from you for a
license to the Software.

THIS LIMITATION WILL NOT APPLY IN CASE OF PERSONAL INJURY ONLY WHERE
AND TO THE EXTENT THAT APPLICABLE LAWS REQUIRES SUCH LIABILITY.
BECAUSE SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION
OF LIABILITY FOR CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, THE ABOVE
LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

8.  General. If you acquired this product in the United States, this
Agreement will be governed by the laws of the state of Florida, 
except for that body dealing with conflicts of law. If this product
was acquired outside the United States or Canada, then local law
may apply. If any provision of this License shall be held by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be contrary to law, that provision will
be enforced to the maximum extent possible, and the remaining
provisions of this License will remain in full force and effect.

9.  Government Restricted Rights. Use, duplication, or disclosure by
the Government is subject to restrictions as set forth in
subparagraph (c)(1)(ii) of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer
Software clause at DFARS 252.227-7013 or in Restricted Rights at 48
CFAR 52.227-19, as applicable.


COPYRIGHT AND TRADEMARK

Copyright(c) 1994-2002 Breadbox Computer Company LLC.  Copyright(c)
1990-2002 Geoworks.  All rights reserved.

Breadbox (r) is a registered trademark of Breadbox Computer Company LLC. 

GEOS(r) and PC/GEOS(r) are registered trademarks of Geoworks in the 
U.S.A and other countries.  Lights Out(tm) is a trademark of Geoworks 
in the U.S.A. and other countries.
 
Sound Blaster(r) is a registered trademark of Creative Technologies.

This software may contain some or all of the following proprietary 
materials.

- Hardware and software floating point math library copyright(c) 
1984-91, Dimensions Research Inc.

- International CorrectSpell(tm) English spelling correction system 
copyright(c) 1990 by INSO Corporation.  All rights reserved.  
Reproduction or disassembly of embodied algorithms or databases 
prohibited.

- Nimbus Q from Digital Typeface Corporation and typefaces from URW, 
GmbH, URW Roman(r), URW Sans(r), and URW Mono(r) are registered 
trademarks of URW GmbH.

- Portions of this program are copyrights of Breadbox Computer Company LLC.

Trademark and service marks not listed are the property of their 
respective owners.

